# Developing a Framework for Parametric City Generation 
Oliver J. Post | 4677706

The objective of this thesis is to design a framework for analysing real-world cities, with the goal of applying this analysis to stochastically and/or parametrically create computer-generated models of new cities. 

To accomplish this objective, this research will touch on the following areas:
- Literature review into existing methods of urban landscape analysis across multiple scales with the aim to select a range of computable indicators. Together, these indicators will form the basis of the parametric city generation step later.
- Literature review into stochastic and parametric generation of city structure, road networks, points of interest distribution, building plot division and two- and three-dimensional buildings. The goal of this step is to get a comprehensive overview of exiting methods for the generation of city models to build upon in the generation step.
- Development of the analytical framework, incorporating automated techniques for extracting the specified indicators from real-world urban data. This part aims to combine the existing indicators and methodologies from the literature review into a pipeline for automated extraction from a selection of data sources.
- Constructing an algorithmic pipeline to generate digital city models based on the framework analysis results. The final outcome will combine all previous steps into the stochastic and parametric generation of a digital city model. Further research and development will show what format this digital model will have, what features it will include, and how it will be presented.

The challenge of this topic lies in the complex nature of the urban environment, and the many factors that influence the shape and structure of cities. Developing a set of indicators that accurately describe a real-world city will force choices to be made in regard to the completeness and conciseness/understandability of the framework. The automated extraction of these indicators will pose another challenge. Most of all, developing algorithms for the accurate generation of an urban landscape based on the framework will pose a very difficult task. To solve the generation challenge completely lies outside of the scope of this thesis.

The expected outcome of the thesis is a thorough analysis of the framework applied to various global cities and a software tool that can be used to generate digital city models based on this framework and a limited set of user inputs.

The generated city models have various applications: they serve as inputs for built environment research such as wind and traffic simulations, aid in urban and architectural design, function as test data for digital formats, algorithms, and applications, provide training material for AI systems, and be used for 3D experiences in virtual reality and video games.

In conclusion, this thesis aims to bridge the gap between theoretical urban analysis and practical city model generation by building on the existing knowledge from both fields.